---
title: "Join Slack to stay up to date!"
date: "2025-11-08"
author: "ICAPS25 Organizing Committee"
layout: post
draft: false
---

Dear ICAPS Participants,

We’re thrilled to **welcome** you to ICAPS 2025! To help you connect, share tips, and make the most of your conference experience, we’ve set up an **official ICAPS 2025 Slack workspace** — your go-to place for real-time conversations, coordination, and community.

The ICAPS Slack is designed to bring our vibrant community together beyond the conference halls. Whether you’re a first-time attendee or a returning participant, this is where you’ll find friendly faces and helpful information.

What You’ll Find:

**#airport-rideshare** – Coordinate rides to and from the airport.

**#sightseeing** – Plan local adventures and explore the city together.

**#foodies** – Discover great eats and share your favourite spots.

**#runners** – Join morning or evening runs with fellow participants.

**#coffee-meetups** – Meet colleagues and new friends over a cup of coffee.

**#social** – Find spontaneous gatherings, events, and more!

 How to Join

1. Click this [link](https://join.slack.com/t/icaps2025/shared_invite/zt-3gpj9v601-yZBmxBuD5Hn4V1S0aFReWw) to join
2. Introduce yourself in the #welcome channel!
3. Browse through the channels and join the ones that interest you.
 
Tip:
Turn on Slack notifications during the conference to stay up-to-date on meetups, announcements, and spontaneous social events.

We can’t wait to see the conversations, collaborations, and connections that happen on Slack.

Let’s make ICAPS 2025 not only insightful — but unforgettable.
